[THEME MUSIC]
>> In the heart of ancient
Indonesia is the island known
as Sulawesi.
Scattered throughout
the rugged valleys
of this pre-diluvian mountaintop
are the megalithic relics
that inspire many questions
about the power and influence
of this legendary land.
Was this massive island
a region of the Mu Empire
that was inhabiting
the entire Pacific
Rim roughly 50,000 years ago.
As alternative researchers
explore this misunderstood
land and the emblematic links
to other pre-diluvian sites
around the planet, the question
remains, who left these relics
and what are they
trying to tell us?
>> Sulawesi is a very
interesting place.
This was the old area
of Sunda, or Sundaland,
as it was known in the past.
Sundaland was actually
joined on to Southeast Asia
in the area of Malaysia.
But at the end of the last
ice age, around 9,600 BC,
a lot of the more coastal
regions sank, leaving Java
and many of the other
islands isolated in the way
that you see today.
But Sulawesi is
beyond that even,
and there is a huge ocean trench
between Java and Sulawesi,
which means that the only
way you can get to it
is through seafaring, and
this has been the case
for tens of thousands of years.
>> One of the most mysterious
islands you'll ever come across
is the 11th biggest
island on the planet.
It's Sulawesi.
It has an incredible
story and traditions
which you don't
often get to hear
about them because the people
are very sort of enclosed.
They keep themselves
to themselves.
It's usually involves
strange languages
which never get translated
into French, English,
or anything that
resembles a language
in the Western world
where academics
are able to follow up.
That said, the stories
eventually leaked out,
and by 1908, a group
of anthropologists
did go to the Central
Valley in Sulawesi,
which is the Bada Valley,
and they found monuments
scattered all over the place.
But the most mysterious ones are
these sort of standing stones.
>> The largest of these
megaliths in Sulawesi is known
as Watu Pelindo, and
it means the "wise man"
or the "entertainer."
But truly, the translation
of that is actually
somewhat unknown, as well
as the purpose of the stone
is unknown as well.
But what's so important
about Watu Pelindo
is the depiction of the
hands around the navel
of the body and the
way that it looks
incredibly similar to other
pre-diluvian megaliths
around the world.
>> One of the most interesting
statues is the Pelindo statue.
Now, this is 15 feet tall.
It's one of the
largest on the island.
And this faces west.
So people have suggested
this may be something
to do with death, possibly
resurrection as well because
of the west-facing nature
of it, where traditionally
that's the sunset.
That's where the soul goes after
death and things like this.
It leans over to one
side now, but it would
have been upright originally.
And this is just one of
many we find on the island.
There's 30 humanoid
statues like this.
Some of them have what appear
to be really elongated skulls.
Some of them are
thought to be female,
like goddess statues that have
necklaces and bracelets on
and other such things.
Some people say they are
directly related to fertility,
but they also relate to people
being turned to stone for doing
bad deeds, like
murder or theft or
different criminal activities.
So there's some moral
implication about don't do bad,
or you'll get turned into
one of these statues.
And so these statues
are very, very powerful,
whoever placed them there.
>> The faces on all of
them are almost identical.
And these heads
are very strange.
They're very round.
They have noses that
almost look like a sort
of medieval knight's nose guard.
And they have these strange,
circular, beady eyes,
and a line that goes round
that forms the chin but often
without a mouth.
And these can be anything up to
15 feet in height, often made
of extremely hard rock.
>> Some of them are fascinating,
and they have these almost
circular plectrum-shaped
heads, some of them.
Sometimes they're carved out
in a really abstract manner,
and they have arms coming down
the sides with hands carved
in relief, either touching the
navel or just below the navel,
or they're actually just about
touching the phallus so there's
fertility elements designed
into these statues.
>> When we isolate the hand
gestures that they're making,
they're very extraordinary,
and they're very definitely
pointing to something
to do with fertility,
with the connection
to the earth,
and also ultimately
with sexual energy,
that perhaps they're
drawing that energy up out
of the earth, and this is
something that takes us back
to the connection to Mu.
It's very earth-connected,
and it's all about the body
as well.
And so these statues
could be just
telling us something
very important
about either fertility rituals,
times for fertility rituals,
or just something about the
energy of the human body.
>> The incredible thing that
you find about these stories is
that these images of these
stones fulfill several
functions.
We now know that all of
these standing stones,
no matter where they
are in the world,
they always have been
erected at the crossing paths
of the Earth's
telluric currents.
So those are the Earth's
electromagnetic pathways
of energy.
So wherever they cross,
a standing stone appears.
And they added an extra
layer of information
here because these
stones were found also
because of their nature in
terms of the granitic nature
of the stone, the quartz,
and the metal in the stone
that they actually amplify
the energy upon which
they're standing.
So this leads us to
the understanding
that the reason why they also
have their hands on their belly
is the fact that they are
described as navel stones.
This is a navel or a
place where the Earth acts
as a navel from which
everything grows.
And we also know that
when you basically
take electromagnetic energy,
and you compound it over time,
and you correlate it
within a specific area,
it has a fertilizing effect on
the plants around the vicinity.
So they have a fertilizing
quality about them,
which brings us of course, to
the phallus between the hands.
These hands are also
holding the phallus
because it mimics the
fertilizing quality the stone
is producing around it.
>> Throughout the
course of history,
humanity has used stones for
their energetic properties.
Granite is believed to be
the oldest volcanic rock
in the world and is one of the
hardest stones on the planet.
This powerful stone can be
found in ancient sites in Egypt,
such as the Osirion
temple at Abydos
and the King's Chamber
of the Great Pyramid.
The giant blocks that
were used in these sites
are believed to have been
transported hundreds of miles
from a quarry in Aswan.
Could the energetic
power of granite
be a link to the presence
of ancient knowledge
on the island of Sulawesi
before the cataclysms
of the Younger Dryas period?
>> Researchers are confused as
to where the stones to make up
these megaliths came from.
Granite is not a stone
indigenous to Sulawesi.
Sulawesi was connected
to Australia as well as
New Guinea via a land bridge.
So these stones could
have come from anywhere
in that territory
that went underwater
some 12,000 years ago.
>> This is granite
we're carving here.
It's not just soft limestone
or anything like that.
So did it come from
another island?
Was it transported over?
Was there granite outcrops there
tens of thousands of years ago
we don't know about
that sunk under the sea?
Also, there's no chisel marks.
There's no tooling marks
on any of the stones
that are clearly visible.
There has been slight
weathering on it as well, so
that might have removed them.
There's no evidence
of any tools,
and there's no evidence
of who did them.
There's no evidence
of a high culture
on this island at the time they
were supposed to be created.
Even the locals, they say
they've always been there.
They've been there.
When their first ancestors were
there, they were already there.
So we're going back potentially
thousands and thousands
of years.
>> Most academics are honest in
that they don't know who made
them or how old they are.
They are made of a very
hard granitic stone, which
would require very hard
steel tools if not even
diamond technology
to be able to shape,
because they are
quite intricate.
>> When talking to mainstream
archaeologists about this site,
the curator of the History of
Sulawesi admitted that they
didn't know both how old these
statues were or who created
them.
So when we're looking at
historical basis of this area,
it's currently a mystery.
>> We find these megaliths on
Sulawesi strewn about all over
the place.
Some have fallen.
Some are still standing.
Some have been damaged
in a way which almost
seems difficult to understand.
So is it possible that
they are the remnants
of a cataclysm that befell
Sundaland as the place of Mu
in the distant past either at
the time of the Younger Dryas
or even perhaps even earlier?
>> Unlike Stonehenge or other
places where they're all
in complete order and more or
less the original positioning,
these stones are
all over the place.
There's thrown over there,
one thrown over there,
it's very randomized.
And I can see how it would
look like that they were thrown
about in a catastrophe, and
this is the devastation effect
of what's happened.
So were they there
before the catastrophe?
>> There was a theory that
they're extremely ancient
because some of
them look very old.
They have extreme
weathering on them.
They seem to have
been knocked around.
They're in random locations,
it seems, over quite
a great distance, actually.
And so did something
knock them around?
Was there some
kind of cataclysm?
Can it even go back to
the Younger Dryas era?
>> When we look at these sites
and we see the destruction,
where they are
broken into pieces,
strewn across the
land haphazardly,
what it tells us is that
something happened so quickly,
with such force,
in such a powerful,
powerful way that this is not a
process that occurred gradually
over a long period of time.
It was an event that happened.
And the dating suggests
the event is directly
linked to the cataclysms
that have created so many
of the mysteries of our past.
>> As the debate continues
around the purpose and origin
of these strange
megalithic statues,
there is an even deeper mystery
on the island of Sulawesi that
baffles alternative researchers.
>> In addition to
the Watu figures,
we find a number of giant pots.
Many of them have one
giant hole carved in them
while some of them have
two chambers inside,
and local residents
assumed that they
were baths for the nobility.
>> One of the most interesting
archaeological discoveries is
these giant cauldrons
or stone bowls.
No one knows who made them.
No one knows where
they came from.
No one even knows where
the stone came from,
because it's a certain
type of granite that
isn't found in the area.
And the carvings are immaculate.
They're precision-engineered,
made by the most outstanding
artisans.
They could be a few
thousand years old.
They could be tens of
thousands of years old.
No one actually knows
who created them.
>> And these can be
anything up to about six,
seven feet in height, and
they're hollowed out inside,
but they have these two areas.
In other words,
there's like a wall,
and there's like two
areas inside them.
And they are only cut
quite shallow inside.
And if you're trying
to understand what's
going on here, it becomes
really difficult very quickly
to try and comprehend this
in terms of anything else
that you might see in any
other part of the world.
I don't just mean in
this part of the world.
I mean anywhere in the world.
And you look at these, and
you are looking at evidence
of a lost culture here.
There's no question
about that at all.
>> Where did the idea come
for making these massive jars?
We see some of them
toppled over these days,
and it's interesting to note in
symbolism worldwide that cups
represent the feminine and
that you have the masculine
there as well.
So I think the symbolism is
about yin and yang, masculine
and feminine as well.
And then you have to
ask yourself, well,
what were these used for,
these massive jar-like objects?
And some myths say that
they were baths for kings.
I mean, there was 419 found, and
some of them had lids as well,
and there was only
219 lids found.
So not all of them had
lids, and how were you
going to ever lift up these lids
to put on the top of the jar
anyway?
And how were they transported?
Questions arise.
It really does
through this island
that hardly anybody knows about.
>> Mainstream science dates
these megaliths to roughly
2,000 to 5,000 years old.
But is there a deeper
connection between
these mysterious granite wonders
and the pre-diluvian clues
found around the planet?
>> There are more influences
that seem to be apparent here
when looking at these
statues from Sulawesi.
We have the statues from
Tiwanaku and Pumapunku
in Bolivia.
We have similar
style, similar design.
Now, could we connect this with
the ancient lost land of Mu?
Certainly we're finding very
similar styles in these vastly
different locations
all across the planet,
and there has to be some
explanation for this.
It's almost like
a sacred tradition
being passed around by these
navigators, these sailors
moving around these
different areas
many, many thousands
of years ago.
>> The sophistication
seen in Sulawesi,
Indonesia is without a doubt
pre-diluvian based on how
incredibly precise some of
these giant megaliths are.
We find similarities to other
pre-diluvian civilizations
around the world.
Whether or not you want to
look at the Moai of Easter
Island and the clasped
hands around their lower
belly for fertility all the
way across to the Urfa man
found in Turkey, which shows the
same clasped hands, what this
tells us is that the
depictions of fertility
and the types of construction
and the types of information
we have for creating these
Bada Valley monoliths
was shared with these other
civilizations around the world.
>> The megaliths on
Sulawesi are unique.
And what we mean by that is
that you cannot look towards any
other contemporary culture
in the Pacific and say, look,
that's where it came from, or
that's where the predecessors
that created those megaliths
may have come from.
But what we do know is that
the same style of carving stone
was in use as early as 9,500
BC at places like Gobekli
Tepe in Southeastern Turkey.
For instance, Urfa man.
>> Urfa man is this incredible
statue of a person from Gobekli
Tepe times about
12,000 years ago.
And he's incredibly
sophisticated.
He's not some kind
of caveman that
looks all crude and scruffy.
These were sophisticated people.
>> We have other statues have
been discovered in places like
Karahan Tepe.
Also, there's a panel
that's been discovered
at a site called Sayburc.
And the same thing
is depicted there,
with the hands coming down the
side and touching the navel.
Now Gobekli Tepe itself means
Potbelly Hill or Navel Hill.
And so the actual name of
it is relating to this,
what the hands are pointing to.
The same thing on Easter Island.
Easter Island is known as the
navel of the world in Rapa Nui
tradition.
>> Sulawesi is
really interesting.
Instantly I went, oh my God.
That looks like the Moai.
Or that looks like
the Urfa man statue.
That looks like things
in South America.
The placement of the hands being
so particularly at the sides,
they chose to do the
hands in a certain way
in very different
corners of the world,
so that struck me instantly.
I was like, I feel like
I've seen this before.
>> Is it possible that there
is another commonality between
Gobekli Tepe and Sulawesi?
Some of these lids of these
weird, huge stone jars,
there are animals on them that
are carved in 3D relief that
match almost exactly
what they call
porthole windows at Gobekli Tepe
in South Turkey that we know
are 11,500 years old.
The similarity in the style
that they've been created
is virtually identical.
So why is it, then, that we
see this particular style
at Sulawesi and also at Gobekli
Tepe in Southeast Turkey
that shows that we are
dealing with the descendants
of some kind of original
culture or civilization
that existed in
the distant past?
And we're not saying therefore
that the Gobekli Tepe
people made them necessarily.
What we are saying is that the
ancients of 11,500 years ago
had the ability to create
carvings like this.
So there's no reason
why we should not
look towards this distant
epoch for the creators,
the manufacturers
of these megaliths.
>> There is a lot of evidence,
whether it's Indonesia or Rapa
Nui, or parts of South
America, that, yes,
there is the same pattern of an
earlier cycle of civilization
sophistication before the
end of the last ice age.
It's not as well developed as
we have for Gobekli Tepe, which
is absolutely definitive,
or for the Great Sphinx,
but we have to keep looking.
We have to keep searching.
We have to keep, I believe,
an open mind to it.
>> If there was an ancient
civilization on Sulawesi that
shared celestial and
architectural knowledge with
other pre-diluvian
civilizations around the planet,
who was this advanced culture,
and when did they inhabit this
land?
As the mystery continues,
a discovery on Sulawesi
may be the link that connects
this mysterious island
to the legendary Mu Empire.
>> One of the other things
that may push that date back
of these stone statues in the
Bada Valley of Sulawesi is
the fact that on the very
Southern part of the island
in a cave they found a 45,000
year old carving of a wild pig.
That's the case,
if they're creating
this artwork in these caves
at this extremely early date,
we know humans were there then.
So could these statues
go back to that era?
We know that on Sumatra and
some other Indonesian islands
some very early stonework
and carvings and petroglyphs
have also been found.
And obviously not too far from
there, on the Java mainland,
we have Gunung Padang, which
some researchers suggest
is 20,000 years old.
So all the dates of all
these other discoveries
could date the statues in
the Bada Valley of Sulawesi.
>> We know that there's evidence
of activity on Sulawesi going
back at least 100,000
to 120,000 years ago.
Stone tools have been found
that date to this early period.
Plus, we have the earliest
evidence of cave art
anywhere in the world.
And the stone tools that
have been found on Sulawesi
are similar to
those that have been
found on the mainland
that have been attributed
to the Denisovans.
That's this distant
cousin of humanity
that existed down to about
30,000 to 40,000 years ago.
So in other words,
there's every reason
to suggest that they could
have reached Sulawesi by boat.
In other words, they had
maritime capabilities
and created not just the stone
tools, but also the cave art,
but also therefore
there's every possibility
that either the Denisovans
or Denisovan human hybrids
who came after them were
responsible for creating
those megaliths.
So is it possible that
the megaliths on Sulawesi
are actual evidence
of the peoples of Mu?
>> What other secrets does
this mysterious island hold
to connect this pre-diluvian
land to a time long before
the catastrophes of the Younger
Dryas scattered and buried
the relics?
Will the location of an ancient
granite quarry be discovered?
And what other evidence
is now underwater along
the coastline of this
massive island that
will alter the
mainstream timeline
for the rise of civilization?